Update the clustering tutorial (#236)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: tutorials/clustering.md

a distributed database. We will set up the distributed database with one primary access node
and two data nodes across three distinct TimescaleDB instances.

It is assumed before starting this tutorial you will have downloaded and installed the

> TimescaleDB multinode beta package on three networked machines running Postgres 11. It's

Reviewer: FWIW, I'd like to move away from making "multinode" sound as something different. Let's just explicitly state the prerequisites here.

For instance:

```
The prerequisites for this tutorial are:

- TimescaleDB version 2.0 (beta) or greater.
- PostgreSQL 11
- Three networked PostgreSQL instances with a common superuser role
```

Reviewer 2: I would also suggest giving these three instances (domain) names and use that in the description below so that you instead of saying "connect to the instance that you want to be an access node", you can write "connect to access.example.com".

Reviewer 2: Name the superuser role here as well---that is, 'postgres'---and use it in the description below.

Author: I've incorporated all of these comments.  I actually lifted the term "TimescaleDB multinode beta" from the instructions Jeff put together, though it might be a bit late to change that now.

also assumed you'll have access to some superuser role common to these three machines.

> Beyond this, please ensure that you've followed the following steps. Some or most of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Beyond this, please ensure that you've completed the following steps. Some or most of
```

these may not be necessary depending on how you initially set up your instances (the 

> docker image should be have most of this already configured):

Reviewer 4: None of the items are configured in the image. The first one (max_prepared_transactions) can be done, but not yet. Thus I suggest to remove the text in parenthesis for now.

Author: Good to know, removed the comment.

> docker image should be have most of this already configured):

Reviewer 2: Mentioning the docker image will implicitly add a requirement to use docker (no, it is not necessary, but it will be perceived as the recommended way.) Suggest to remove the comment.

Author: removed

> - Make sure you've enabled 'max_prepared_transactions' on all the instances (set this to 100 if you're unsure), this is found in `postgresql.conf`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Make sure you've enabled 'max_prepared_transactions' on all the instances (set this to 100 if you're unsure), this parameter is located in `postgresql.conf`
```

> - Make sure you've enabled 'max_prepared_transactions' on all the instances (set this to 100 if you're unsure), this parameter is located in `postgresql.conf`

Reviewer 2: Unsure about what? Suggest to write "for example 100" and not in parentheses but rather commas.

Author: Yes, that felt clunky when I wrote it and I meant to come back and clean it up.  Still looked a bit funky as you suggested, so I added it as a second sentence here.

> - Make sure the data nodes are properly listening for network traffic. `postgresql.conf` should have a `listen_addresses` value including the access node's IP. If the field is missing or `localhost`, change it to the needed IP, or `"*"`

Reviewer 2: This is a little vague on what to set it to. Suggest to write it as "if the IP address of the access node is A.B.C.D, then set listen_address should be set to..."

Author: Cleaned this up.

> - The superuser role must have an entry in the `pg_hba.conf` file. This should look something like: ```host    all    <superuser role>    <connection source>    trust``` The connection source should be the `<access node's IP>/32` or some encompasing range, or `samenet` if the instances are on the same subnet. For using authentication mechanism's other than `trust`, please see the [authentication guide][data-node-authentication]. Note that if the instance is specifying something other than `pg_hba.conf` in the `hba_file` field of `postgresql.conf`, then that is the file which must have the above line.

Reviewer 2: This is a little too many options. Suggest to pick a standard one and go for that, even if it is not entirely accurate. Users that have "strange" setups will know how to handle that.

Author: Removed the `samenet` suggestion as well as the last sentence.  I do want to include both IP and hostname though.

> 

Reviewer: Not related to this PR, but after reading this, I really think we need to do something to make sure that this is much easier out-of-the box.

Author: I did try to document everything I stumbled over trying to write the tutorial.

> After making any of these changes, please restart your postgres instance to ensure the

Reviewer 2: "Postgres"

Author: Fixed

new settings take effect.

## Define the topology for your distributed database

Now that you have 3 running instances of TimescaleDB, you can go ahead and set up your

> distributed database. Connect to the instance that you would like to act as the access 

Reviewer: Should probably state somewhere that the data nodes should not have a database on them already.

Author: Added a sentence to that effect

> node using your superuser role, and create a new database there:

Reviewer 4: May be add a superuser to the connection command below, e.g.:
```
\c multinode superuser
```

Author: done

After making any of these changes, please restart your Postgres instance to ensure the
new settings take effect.

## Define the topology for your distributed database

Now that you have 3 running instances of TimescaleDB, you can go ahead
and set up your distributed database. Connect to `access.example.com`
as `postgres`, and create a new database `multinode`. It's important that
none of the instances already have a `multinode` database on them
before starting this step:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE multinode;
\c multinode postgres
CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb;
```

You can now add the data nodes to the access node:

```sql
SELECT add_data_node('dn1', host=>'data1.example.com');

SELECT add_data_node('dn2', host=>'data2.example.com');
```

The first argument is the local name of a data node on the access node. The

> `host` parameter is the IP or DNS address of the data node.

Reviewer 2: It is not very clear what a DNS address is, and AFAICT, it is not a common term. Is it the address of the DNS server or something else? (If I search for "dns address" I get descriptions of DNS servers.) I suggest that you call it domain name.

Author: Changed this to "hostname or IP address."

a distributed database. We will set up the distributed database with one primary access node
and two data nodes across three distinct TimescaleDB instances.

It is assumed before starting this tutorial you will have three networked machines set up with:
- TimescaleDB version 2.0 (beta) or greater
- PostgresSQL 11

For the sake of this tutorial we will refer to these machines as
access.example.com, data1.example.com, data2.example.com. You will also
need a common superuser role on each postgres instance. This tutorial
will assume the `postgres` role for this, but you may substitute any

> role common to all machines with superuser permission.

Reviewer 2: Perfect, but I suggest to put backquotes around the domain names.

Author: done

Author: done

Beyond this, please ensure that you've completed the following steps.
Some or most of these may not be necessary depending on how you
initially set up your instances:

> - Make sure you've enabled 'max_prepared_transactions' on all the instances, this parameter is located in `postgresql.conf`. We recommend a setting of at least 100.

Reviewer 2: Backquotes around `max_prepared_transaction`?

Author: good catch

- Make sure the data nodes are properly listening for network traffic. `postgresql.conf` should have a `listen_addresses` set to include the access node. If this parameter is missing or just `localhost`, change it to `access.example.com`, or the corresponding IP. You can also set it to `"*"` to not restrict where connections can originate from.
- The superuser role, `postgres` in this example, must have an entry in the `pg_hba.conf` file for the data nodes. This should look something like: ```host    all    postgres    access.example.com    trust``` You can use any CIDR block covering the access node's IP in place of `access.example.com`. For using authentication mechanism's other than `trust`, please see the [authentication guide][data-node-authentication].

After making any of these changes, please restart your Postgres instance to ensure the
new settings take effect.

## Define the topology for your distributed database

Now that you have 3 running instances of TimescaleDB, you can go ahead
and set up your distributed database. Connect to `access.example.com`

> using your superuser role, and create a new database there. It's

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: "as `postgres`"

Author: done

> important that none of the instances already have a `multinode`

Reviewer 2: Not very clear if the `multinode` is because there is a hard-coded limitation that disallow `multinode` or if it is the "new database" that you're referring to. Suggest "... and create a new database `multinode`. It's ...".

Author: done

database on them before starting this step:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE multinode;
\c multinode postgres
CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb;
```

Now, you can tell your access node that currently contains the multinode database to add

> data nodes in order to store distributed hypertables:

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: "You can now add the data nodes to the access node."

Author: yeah, that seems a lot cleaner :)

```sql
SELECT add_data_node('dn1', host=>'data1.example.com');

SELECT add_data_node('dn2', host=>'data2.example.com');
```

> The first argument represents the local name of a data node that you can

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Replace first sentence with "The first argument is the local name of the data node."

Author: Went with "The first argument is the local name of the data node on the access node."

Reviewer 2: I think the mention of the access node is redundant since the command is executed on the access node, but this is better than the first version.

use to refer to data nodes when running commands on the access node. The

> `host` parameter is the IP or DNS the access node will use to actually

Reviewer 2: Suggest "the IP or DNS" ==> "the address of"

Author: went with "IP or DNS address of the data node."  I wanted to make it clear how to do this if the user is doing everything by IP.

Reviewer 2: It is not very clear what a DNS address is. Is it the address of the DNS server or something else? I think you should call it domain name.

data nodes in order to store distributed hypertables:

```sql
SELECT add_data_node('dn1', host=>'<data node 1 address>');

SELECT add_data_node('dn2', host=>'<data node 2 address>');
```

> Let's go through exactly what the `add_data_node` command is doing. The first

Reviewer 2: No need to "prepare the user" here, just start describing. Suggest to remove first sentence (yes, it is not part of this patch, but anyway).

Author: done

```sql
SELECT * FROM timescaledb_information.hypertable;
```

You can also see the specifics of how a particular hypertable is 

> distributed.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: "You can also see how the data of a distributed hypertable is distributed on the data nodes by using the `hypertable_data_node_relation_size` function."

Author: done
